PostgreSQL Database Modeler - pgModeler
---------------------------------------

PostgreSQL Database Modeler, or simply, pgModeler is an open source tool for modeling databases that merges the classical concepts of entity-relationship diagrams with specific features that only PostgreSQL implements. The pgModeler translates the models created by the user to SQL code and apply them onto database clusters from version 8.0 to 9.1.

Please, let me know how the pgModeler is working on your system! Help to improve this project, give your feedback about the software or report any bug at [Issues](https://github.com/pgmodeler/pgmodeler/issues) page. Additionaly, follow the pgModeler profile on [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/pgmodeler) or [Twitter](https://twitter.com/pgmodeler) and be up-to-date with new features, fixes and releases.

Licensing
---------

This software is licensed under GNU General Public License 2.0. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/pgmodeler/pgmodeler/blob/master/LICENSE) for details.

Compiling/Installation
----------------------

For details about compilation and installation process see [COMPILING.md](https://github.com/pgmodeler/pgmodeler/blob/master/COMPILING.md) for details.

Warning
-------

Although this is first stable version of pgModeler it is recommended NOT EXPORT the models created directly to production environments. Not all possible code generation were tested in this way, is its your own risk export the models into environments that are not intended for testing. The project's author is not responsible for any possible loss of data due the inappropriate use of this tool.

Change History
--------------

[ v0.2.0 ]

* NEW FEATURE: pgModeler now has an interface to implement third party plugins. Check [PLUGINS.md] (https://github.com/pgmodeler/pgmodeler/blob/master/COMPILING.md) for details.
* Issue#2 resolved, pgModeler no longer crashes when removing an primary-key of a table which has relationship with other tables.
* Added a short cut to easily control the zoom on the model. Use Crtl + Mouse wheel up (zoom up) or Crtl + Mouse wheel down (zoom down)
* Fixed the semantics of one-to-one relationships.

[ v0.1.2 ]

* Dockwidgets no longer disappear unexpectedly when the main window is minimized.
* Operations performed before creating a table object (column, constraint, trigger, index, rule) are no longer removed when any exception is thrown in the creation of these object.
* Fixed bug that caused user-defined types had wrong SQL/XML code generated by the model.
* Functions and Types received an own range of id in order to create these objects in a correct way.
* Added a functionality to save modified models before closing the software.
* Updated the en_US dictionary with the texts of the above functionality.
* Fixed segmentation faults caused by the destruction of relationships which possessed attributes/constraints.
* Fixed the translation to SQL code of one-to-one relationships.
* Fixed segmentation fault when editing relationships and/or undoing an operation involving a relationship.
* Identifiers relationships now correctly display the thick line beside the weak entity.

[ v0.1.1 ]

* Correction of the actions for inserting graphic objects (table, text box, vision and relationship) in Windows environment
* Fix on the display of the maximize button in the window decoration in Windows environment
* Adjust on the position and spacing of widgets in editing forms
* The XML parser can now correctly read DTD files in Windows environment
* The compilation method is no longer in the form of shared libraries + executable and passed to be as standalone executable only

Older Releases/Code
-------------------

The older code and releases of pgModeler can be found at [Sourceforge.net](http://sourceforge.net/projects/pgmodeler)
